---
layout: post
title:  "The first Mailu (1.3) release after the rename is ready!"
date:   2016-11-06 08:00:00
---

**First a warning as TL;DR. Following the project rename, please read
the [migration guide](https://github.com/Mailu/Mailu/wiki/Migrate-from-Freeposte-to-Mailu)
carefully if you were already running Freeposte.**

Renaming the project was a critical step in its life and we
certainly hope that it will help gain even more traction and collaborate
every day to add new features and improve Mailu.

This new release introduces mostly bugfixes and a couple of enhancements.
It was however the most complicated to prepare and publish because we had
to deal for the first time with multiple active contributors, sometimes
diverging points of view, a solid user base that would prefer their production
not break, and some major upstream issues.

The release itself was delayed a month, partly due to these changes, partly due
to upstream issues. One of them for instance, a bug in Dovecot, took us a
couple of long nights debugging low-level memory management code in Dovecot in
order to fix the vacation message in Mailu! This lead to humble contributions
to Dovecot and Alpine Linux and we are still proud to be contributing to a
larger software environment.

Among the major changes that we introduced, Rainloop is now officially
supported as a Webmail and we are open to contributions to add even more
alternatives to the next release.

Also, Mailu admin interface now has built-in internationalization and we will
initiate a localization campaign to add at least French and German to the list
of supported languages. Please contact us if you would like to contribute
another translation.

Finally, we hardened Postfix configuration both for security reasons
(preventing address usurpation upon existing SPF) and to prevent spam. We
found that the already effective antispam filter now blocks more that 99% of
junk messages on our test servers.

A more detailed list of changes is available in the project [changelog](https://github.com/mailu/mailu/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md).

Please read the [Setup Guide](https://github.com/mailu/mailu/wiki/Setup-Guide)
if you plan on setting up a new mail server. Mailu is free software,
you are more than welcome to report issues, ask for features or enhancements,
or contribute your own modifications!
